- Previously on St. Elsewhere.
- I'm Dr. Paxton.
How do you know so much
about birds, Ralph?
I am a bird.
And now you walk back
into my life and it's like
you never left.
Until we meet again,
mon Petit Chou-Fleur.
Oh, Dr. Bullfinch.
I will not have this man
running around here
playing Doctor.
Tonight on st. Elsewhere.
Call the Code.
Get an O.R. Ready.
Tell them gunshot wound
to the chest.
It's 10 years, Nance.
I mean, I've changed.
So have I. If this were
10 years ago, I'd jump
into bed with you right now.
He's not gonna make it
through the night, Jack.
You mean you're not
gonna be a bird anymore?
That's right.
I'm gonna be a human,
24 hours a day, every day.
- This boy is dead and gone.
- He's not dead
till I say he's dead.
[ speaking chinese ]
they really think
This is gonna save him?
- Yes.
- You think I'm gonna jump,
don't you?
- Come on, Ralph.
- Stand right there, Hugh.
So the guy asks, he says,
"who gave you the 50 cents?"
yeah?
And she says, "they all did."
[ both laughing ]
Oh, you know mrs. Wilder,
the one recovering
in the burn unit?
Yeah, what about her?
She found her husband
in bed with another woman.
Working can wait.
This is Paradise.
So what does she do?
She's a real einstein,
this woman.
She gets a gallon of gasoline.
She douses them all with it.
Lights a match and whoo!
- Blows them all up.
- [ clattering ]
take it easy, fella.
So flash forward
to the burn unit, okay?
They're all bandaged up.
They're all
in these big dressings.
They look like
enormous cookie monsters, okay?
And they just start
whaling on each other.
Who?
Mrs. Wilder and the woman
she found in bed
with her husband.
♪♪ [ singing, indistinct ]
they're in the same room
together?
Right next to each other,
beating each other up.
Are you listening to my story?
Of course, Ehrlich.
I'm simply recapitulating.
It's a rhetorical
device.
Oh.
His mind's somewhere else.
Dr. Paxton.
Oh, come, come, Dr. Samuels.
You think we haven't noticed:
The glazed look,
the heavy breathing?
Not to mention you've been
walking around like secretariat
after he's put out to stud.
Or how your obnoxious,
detached, patronizing manner...
melts into a rabid
sexual yearning every time
she enters the room.
It's really quite touching...
for someone your age.
I haven't the vaguest idea
of what you're talking about,
Fiscus.
The truth. Wouldn't you
like to take a tumble
with Nancy Paxton?
Raise a Nickel.
- A Nickel?
- That's right.
I see your laxative, Lyle,
and I raise you
two thiamine.
You mean to tell me that
you're here of your own free
volition on a saturday night?
Certainly.
Yes, I'm sure
the fact...
that Dr. Paxton is on call
has nothing to do with it.
Nice hands, Ehrlich.
You, uh, wanna be a surgeon?
Uh, wh-What's the limit?
Morphine.
Anything over-the-Counter goes.
You mean I have to explain
why I wanna play cards...
with My colleagues
every saturday night?
With Your track record,
Samuels? Yeah.
Listen to this.
I'm gonna sit here...
and take this kind of abuse
from someone who has the nerve
to raise me a Nickel-- a Nickel?
Is that any kind of way
for an adult to conduct himself
in a poker game, Stephens?
- What do you got?
- Two pair.
Dermatologists
and radiologists,
the lowest of the low.
Three 7's.
I can't stand it.
I never win.
- a boat.
- Holy smoke.
Sorry to win and run,
gentlemen, but there's
simply no competition.
Listen, Stephens,
a word of advice.
When you're playing with adults,
do not raise a laxative.
- I never win.
- uppers?
No, vitamin "E."
Hi.
You mind if I sit down?
Fine.
So, uh,
how's it going?
Fine.
Oh, Good. Good.
And your life?
Fine.
[ snickers ]
it's saturday night.
What are you doing here anyway?
Well, you might as well know--
I guess everyone else does--
I came to see you.
Oh.
Apparently I'm wearing
my heart on my sleeve.
Or haven't you noticed?
Well, you've been
very friendly.
[ laughing ]
I appreciate that.
I see. You're not gonna
make this easy for me, are you?
Ten years, Ben.
There's a lot of blood
spilled in our relationship.
You still don't forgive me
for leaving?
Oh, I forgive you, sure.
It's a lot Harder to Forget.
Look, if I could change
what happened, what I did,
you know--
I don't expect you to.
If I could, I would.
You're not listening, Ben.
I forgive you. Really, I do.
You mean,
what I'm feeling,
you don't feel
anything like that?
Ben, I'm crazy about you.
Well, wonderful.
So, what's the problem?
I'm not crazy about you
that way.
It's 10 years, Nance.
I mean, I've changed.
So have I. If this were
10 years ago, I'd jump
into bed with you right now.
Look, you know,
you are throwing out
very mixed signals here.
No, I'm not.
I'm trying to be as honest
with you as I can.
Well--
I think
you're irresponsible.
Not to your work
but to people.
I would have gone
anywhere with you.
I would have done
anything.
It took me a very long time
to get to the point...
where you don't interfere
with my living my life.
And now you don't.
I like my life.
I like what I'm doing.
I am perfectly happy.
I'm dying for you.
[ laughs ]
you won't die, Ben.
I didn't.
Besides that,
it'd probably
be a big disappointment.
Not a chance.
Now you know that's not True,
don't you?
I couldn't go through it
again, Ben.
I don't want to.
[ cooing ]
you spoiled the mood, Hugh.
You always spoil the mood.
Still can't sleep, huh?
Not can't, won't.
Too much to think about.
Yeah, well, I'll have them
give you something
that will help.
Help me sleep
or help me think?
Really, I don't feel
like sleeping.
I think perhaps
you're right after all.
Maybe it's time
I stop being a bird.
I've been every species of bird
known to humankind,
and it still hasn't helped.
The question is then
what should I be?
Well, that's a very good
question, Ralph.
Maybe I'll just be myself.
I like that answer.
I thought you would.
It's a Crisp,
cool night.
The kind That's better in Boston
than any city in the world.
Give me a nice warm breeze
blowin' in off the gulf coast
Anytime.
Too much humidity, Hugh.
Not for me.
What are you doing
in Boston anyway, Hugh?
You're like a duck
out of water up here.
I can see you
in mobile, alabama
or tuscaloosa.
But you a Boston brahmin?
I got sick of pawpaws.
Do you ever miss it?
Gulfport, mississippi,
I mean.
Not the place so much--
Mostly I miss my people.
Your folks still there?
Mm-Hmm.
It's funny.
I've spent so much time
being angry at my folks.
How do you feel
about them now?
I feel sorry for them.
They've realized how badly
they screwed things up.
Ralph--
No, I know, I know.
They weren't sure what
to do with a kid who was
supposed to be a genius.
They thought what
they were doing was right.
They were told that m.I.T.
Was the best place for you.
I was 14 years old
my freshman year.
I didn't shave
till I was 18.
My parents never knew
how to act around me.
Now they can't bear
to see me.
So I don't know how to
act around them...
or anyone else
for that matter.
The only person
who I ever felt comfortable
with was Jane,
the mother of my child.
Have you spoken
to her recently?
I talked to her
on the phone a week ago.
She sounds happy.
I feel happy for her.
She's moving to arizona.
Yeah.
I think being With
her father's the best thing
for her, don't you?
Yes, yes, I do.
"Things fall apart.
The center cannot hold."
What's that?
That's from a poem
by Yeats.
Sort of describes
my relation to the world.
I don't know what
to do with the world,
and the world doesn't
know what to make of me.
[ Paxton ]
How are his pupils?
Sluggish.
His temperature's Normal.
That's not necessarily
a good sign.
The body's response to infection
is to produce fever.
If there's no fever,
it means he's not fighting
off the infection.
Any response
to deep pain stimulation?
No.
[ Sighs ]
his pupils are dilated,
but they're not fixed.
They react
only minimally to light.
Has he been decerebrating?
Yes.
His brain's not active.
It's obviously
very infected.
I don't understand.
It's too fast.
We're losing him.
He's not gonna make it
through the night, Jack.
Better call the Family.
[ Fiscus ]
I say the breaking out
of diseases like herpes ii...
or, uh, kaposi's sarcoma
are nature's way of telling us
to slow down Sexually.
Is that your rationale
for not having a date
in the past six weeks?
You laugh,
but I got this friend,
Bob macgonigal.
He found out he
had chronic Hepatitis.
- Fiscus, what are you gonna do?
- Okay, keep your scrubs on.
Hey, any chance of me
getting a seat in this game?
Sure.
The cards aren't gonna
change, Fiscus, no matter
how long you look at them.
Okay, okay.
I see your dime
and I raise a Nickel.
Nickels and dimes?
My grandmother doesn't play
for Nickels and Dimes.
Yeah, well, that's what
we get for playing with
Larry, Moe and curly.
- [ Hugh ] Ben,
what are you doing in here?
- Bury these.
Rumor mill has it you're out
somewhere making time
with Nancy Paxton.
She rejected him.
I see your placebo
and raise you one.
Jack it up.
Wait, wait.
What's this?
She told him to go hang
his shingle Elsewhere.
Come on, less talk,
more action, okay?
Is this True, Ben?
Well, this-- this kind of
shakes my faith in--
Well, in something.
Yeah. Mighty Casey
struck out.
Come on, you guys.
I'm way down, and now
you're fooling around!
- Gimme a chance, will ya?
- What are you still
doing here, Ben?
What? Oh, I just didn't
feel like going home tonight.
- I'm out.
- Fine, he's out. What are
you gonna do, maverick?
I call.
Fine. Here,
three 8's.
You're good, kid,
but you're not good enough.
A flush?
You just call me
with a flush?
[ all laughing ]
Better quit now, Ehrlich.
Oh, my Marker.
Fill this for me,
will you, doctor?
[ Chattering ]
Dr. Morrison.
Oh.
Hello.
[ mumbles ]
did you tell them
we don't think
Mickey's gonna make it?
Yes.
[ speaking chinese ]
they wanna know
if there's still any hope.
His heart Rate's down to 40.
He doesn't--
uh, I don't think so, no.
[ speaking Chinese ]
[ sobbing,
speaking chinese ]
- I don't believe this.
- What did he say?
[ Speaking Chinese ]
[ continues in chinese ]
Either my Mandarin's
getting weak,
or he just said he wants to
perform ultimate chinese
Medicine on his son.
What is ultimate
chinese medicine?
It's an old chinese
Superstition.
Sometimes they use
coins, candles. They spread it
all over a room.
I'm not sure.
I've never seen it.
It's the kind of thing
you hear about
when you're a kid.
But is there anything invasive?
Needles or drops?
I'll ask.
[ speaking Chinese ]
he said, no, nothing that
would upset your procedures.
Sure. Why not?
If it'll make them
feel better.
Tell them We've done
everything possible.
Gimme a hand,
for god's sake!
Come on. We need you!
Gurney. Get the Gurney!
There's blood all over
the back of my cab.
We've got a bullet hole
entrance wound in
the left posterior chest.
And an exit out the abdomen
with a four-By-Six centimeter
defect.
I don't think he's breathing.
Call the Code.
Get an O.R. Ready.
Beep Samuels fast.
Samuels isn't on tonight.
He's in the solarium,
playing poker. Tell him
gunshot wound to the chest,
like you
wouldn't believe.
Right.
Okay, we've got him from here.
You wait right out there.
Someone will talk to you.
We have a code blue
and beep Samuels.
Charlene, get over here!
Move That thing!
I think he's dead, Fiscus!
Give me d-5 lactated ringers,
colloids, with intubation
with a 22-Centimeter
endotracheal tube,
an open thoracotomy tray,
two number-16
central Intravenous catheters...
and a Mast suit, stat.
I'm gonna raise his legs.
Looks like a meteor shower
went through this guy.
Must've been a hollow point.
Get two liters of Plasmanate.
[ white ]
one and two and three
and four and five.
One and two and three
To the lab for an a.B.G.
Lights type and cross-Match,
four units whole blood, stat.
One and two and three
and four and five.
I'll do that.
I need practice
finding the vocal cords.
I'm putting the femoral I.V.
In place.
Is there
any pulse yet?
Nothing. Still Nothing.
Can you see the cords?
No, not yet.
- I'll do it.
- No, no, I got it.
I got it.
In here.
Check for breathing.
One second.
His pupils are fixed
and dilated. Get me
the thoracotomy tray, stat.
[ white ]
okay, check for signs
of breathing. Okay.
You put it in his stomach.
Try again.
I need some gloves here.
What do you got?
A chest wound with
Fecal contents coming
from the abdominal Cavity.
Where's the thoracotomy tray?
[ Fiscus ]
burns is getting it.
- Unbelievable.
- I'm gonna get the Mast suit.
All right.
[ Samuels ] come on, Sandy,
where's the tray?
It's right here.
Let's move.
Okay, it's all set.
Give me the large knife.
I'm gonna open the chest.
Rib retractor.
Oh, my god, there's
no blood left in him.
- Asystole.
- Chest filled
with clotted blood.
I'll pull the lung
out of your way.
Okay, I got the heart.
You want
the aortic cross clamp?
No, scissors. I'm gonna
cut into the pericardium.
See if I can squeeze
the heart and pump
some life back into him.
Blood Gases.
Come on, come on,
the blood gases!
"P.H.: 6.9, p02: 40, pc02: 60,
sodium bicarbonate: 9."
That's low.
There's no oxygen.
I got a gunshot hole
in the left ventricle.
I have to close.
- "O" Ethilon suture
with Pledgets.
- What?
Pledgets, Sandy.
Come on, listen up.
You need to watch it.
Watch it. Watch it.
We didn't have time
to warm the blood.
It's ice cold.
It may help. With any luck,
he'll become Hypothermic and
his metabolism will slow down.
Give me three amps of bicarb,
two amps of calcium gluconate...
and a lidocaine drip
one to 100, Stat.
Fiscus, cross-Clamp
the aorta distal
to the carotid arteries.
We've gotta send
as much blood as possible
to the brain.
Otherwise he'll end up
a vegetable. How long's
he been here anyway?
About four minutes.
There's no telling how long
the flow's been cut off.
Carotid pulse?
Still Nothing.
This boy's dead and Gone.
He's not dead
till I say he's dead.
Do you understand?
Where you been, Tenney?
Getting a suntan?
Wait a minute. Wait a minute.
I'm getting something.
I got a pulse.
- All right.
- Okay. Let's get him
up to O.R.
I'm gonna continue
cardiac massage
so we don't lose it.
[ Monitor beeping ]
Okay. Okay.
Let's move him.
Easy, easy.
I'm gonna need
to ask you some questions.
Okay, what's his name?
I don't know.
Okay, he'll go down as John Doe
till we find out who he is.
What's your name?
Danny christiano jr.
Okay, Mr. Christiano,
do you wanna tell me
What happened?
Uh, yeah, I dropped a fare
off at la Grange.
It was out of town.
I took him to a girlie show
or something.
And so I'm coming
back up the hill,
and I notice this Younger guy
talking to this older guy.
But then, not arguing
or nothing, just talking.
Mm-hmm.
And so I turned for a second
to change the station
on my radio.
When I looked back up,
the older guy pulls a gun out,
and puts it right
on the Younger Guy's chest.
You know, like you would put
your finger on someone's chest.
And then the Younger guy
turns away for a second,
and the older guy shoots him
right in the back.
I couldn't believe it.
I've been working
that combat zone for five years.
I thought I'd seen everything.
I see hookers, junkies.
I seen a guy one time
just take a razor and slice
another Guy's face up.
But I never seen
nothing like that.
I-I got outta the cab,
and I went over and I pick him
up outta the street, you know?
And he looks at me,
and he says, "Why did they
have to kill me?"
like as if he knew
that he was dead.
I ain't never held
no dead person before.
How the hell am I gonna
get all that blood
outta the back of the cab?
I'm gonna staple
the left upper lobe
of the lung,
then check out the liver,
spleen and kidney damage.
We'll see what we can repair
and what we'll have to lose.
Okay?
Okay.
All right.
Staple gun.
Here lies John Doe,
the unknown soldier
of the inner city.
Remember When saturday night
used to be date night?
You know,
you take your best girl...
to a double feature
at the bijou.
Catch a Burger
at the malt shop.
Try to cop a feel
up at lookout Point.
Get her home by Curfew.
Now saturday night
rolls around,
Everybody's trying to blow
each other's brains out.
Norman Rockwell dies hard.
Search and heal.
Gonna be a long night.
Suture.
[ speaking Chinese ]
[ speaking Chinese continues ]
Why is he doing that?
[ Speaking Chinese ]
[ speaking chinese ]
the EGG signifies new birth.
They're making a halo
around his soul.
[ speaking Chinese ]
That's gonna burn him.
It's okay, Jack.
[ speaking chinese ]
it's okay.
He says
they're birth coins.
He says he thinks the eyes
are the mirror of the soul.
The heat of the coins
will reawaken
the dormant consciousness.
They really think
This is going to save him?
Yes.
What do you think?
I think the boy
has spinal Meningitis.
His cortex is nearly dead.
I don't think
he has a prayer.
Neither do I.
You don't believe
in what they're doing?
Come on, Morrison,
I grew up on tv dinners
and the celtics.
Well, I don't like it.
I've seen things
like this before, Jack.
They don't do any harm.
I'm trained as a doctor,
not as a faith healer.
[ speaking Chinese ]
he wants to know
if it would be possible
to remove the I.V.
Sure.
Nancy, we can't
remove his I.V.
Jack, the boy is dying.
It's not going to
make any difference.
Luther!
Hey, Ralph.
How you feeling?
Great.
Hey, did I tell you
about Julius?
That paragon of pigeons?
Yeah. Since you fixed him up,
he is flying great.
That's fantastic.
I mean, I don't know
what you did or how you did it,
but he's flying
record times.
I'm always glad to help.
Give my regards
to Julius.
What is this?
Just a little package I put
together for you-- Vitamins,
oils, seeds, stuff like that.
You know I can't take this.
This is your bird stuff.
No, Luther, I want you
to have it. See, I'm getting
out of the bird business.
I'm retiring.
You mean, you're not going
to be a bird anymore?
That's right.
I'm gonna be a human,
24 hours a day, every day.
I'm even gonna dream
in human.
Oh, come on, Luther,
don't look so sad.
It's for the best.
Yeah, but, Ralph,
you were one hell of a bird.
I mean, what happened?
Well, let's just say
I've molted. Lost my feathers,
so to speak.
There's no future
in being a bird anymore.
I can't compete with Julius.
I never could.
Come on, take it. I bet
your birds will love this stuff.
I did.
Thanks, Ralph.
Hey, Ralph, listen.
If you change your mind,
I mean if you decide
to become a bird again,
you can have it back.
Clamp.
Gonna have to lose
the spleen,
otherwise I'm not
going to be able
to stop the bleeding.
Ehrlich, catch
that little bleeder
for me, will you?
Ground control
to Dr. Ehrlich.
Hey, Ehrlich!
Oh, god, I'm sorry.
Catch that bleeder
for me.
Where were you?
North shore of maui,
inside a 20-Foot curl.
When I'm in here this long,
I can't stop daydreaming.
How do you still concentrate
after four hours?
Are you kidding?
This is it.
It gets me off.
Do we have enough three-0 silk
suture Material left...
to do
a temporary colostomy?
Yes, doctor.
Is Fanning on call?
Just finishing up
in O.R.-2.
Clamp.
Well, John Doe,
looks like you're gonna get
a shot to get shot at again.
What do you think the Fight
was about?
Oh, who knows.
A broad or a buck.
Listen. Tell
the delightful Dr. Fanning...
that we'll be ready for her
in about, oh, 40 minutes.
Repair damage
to the left kidney.
Hang in there, Ehrlich,
we're almost home.
Cut. Clamp.
[ Cards shuffling ]
ah, new blood.
I don't think there's any left
in the building. We pumped it
all into John Doe.
Did he make it?
Too early to tell.
Samuels has had him
for almost four Hours.
Jack, you want to sit in
with us over here?
Uh, no, I'll pass.
You don't do that until
you've looked at your cards.
I've never been much
of a card player.
We really could use
a fifth man, Jack.
You realize you're taking food
from my unborn Child's mouth.
Oh.
[ chuckles ]
what's the game?
Game is Five card hi-Lo,
pass one to the right
and roll your own.
The game
of a desperate man.
Just ante up. Ante up.
Who dealt this mess?
I only got four Cards.
Look, I got six.
Misdeal.
This is the best hand
I had tonight,
a low natural flush.
I could have wheeled it
and gone both ways.
Okay, heartbreak, Beale.
Just toss them in.
Whose deal?
They're in.
Mine.
- Who ordered chinese?
- Dr. Morrison?
What the hell--
I'm hungry.
[ Morrison ]
does your head ache?
Mm-Mmm.
How about your neck, Mickey?
Does that hurt you?
Nope, just my stomach,
'cause I was hungry.
[ speaking chinese ]
my parents would like
to know if they could
take me home tomorrow.
We'll have to run
some tests first.
[ speaking Chinese ]
just as a precaution.
Just to make sure
everything is...
really absolutely...
All right.
[ speaking Chinese ]
[ speaking chinese ]
my mother and father
would like to thank you.
My father says that the spirit
of children lives in the heart
and mind,
and that your intelligence
with Ultimate Chinese medicine
Rid my brain of the infection.
♪♪ [ rock, indistinct ]
good morning, Norma.
We're almost ready for you.
What do you have for me?
He presented
five hours ago to E.R.
We did a left
anterior thoracotomy,
sutured the heart...
and continued open heart massage
on the way to O.R.
Is he stable?
Well, relative to what he was,
which was clinically dead.
I haven't played any favorites
with this one, Norma.
Heart, liver, spleen, lungs
transverse Colon--
They've all had equal time.
The only remaining injury
is a laceration
to the left kidney,
and that means you.
Who is he anyway?
Dr. Fanning,
meet John Doe.
[ Chattering ]
good morning, Earl!
Oh, Ralph,
what brings you down here
at the crack of dawn?
I'd like some breakfast.
I'm sorry, Ralph,
but they won't let me order
them seeds for you no more.
Oh, no more
Caraway seeds for me.
I want a big breakfast--
Ham, eggs, Bacon...
and a short Stack
of blueberry pancakes
with some real butter.
You want all that, do you?
Man Cannot live
by Worms alone.
You done that? You eat worms?
Yes, at one time
in my life. I did.
What they taste like?
I don't know.
It was a few years ago.
Just prior to my coming here.
As a matter of fact,
I never even remember
eating them.
Then how do you know you did?
I was told
by reliable sources.
Oh. Well, anyway,
you're gonna have to
wait for all that food.
I haven't got the grill
up yet.
I got some coffee
ready though.
No, I don't think so.
But how about a danish
and a large glass
of orange juice?
Mm.
I'm feeling extraordinarily
Well this morning.
Do you know that, Earl?
Good, Ralph, good.
I haven't slept,
but outside of that,
it's a new day,
a new dawn in the life
of Ralph selover.
You're feeling good, Ralph,
ain't ya?
Thank you, Earl.
Thank you my good man,
my friend,
mon Ami tres heureux.
My very happy friend.
Oh, yeah, that's me.
You are happy,
aren't you, Earl?
With your life, I mean.
Of course I'm happy.
What's not to be happy about?
My Pension's comin' up,
me and my wife be movin'
down south to the grandchildren.
That's Terrific.
That's wonderful.
Kids, great kids.
Just wonderful.
Give them a kiss for me.
Well, it won't be
a while yet.
As a matter of fact,
make that four.
Two on each cheek.
Will you do that for me?
I will, Ralph.
I will.
Thank you, Earl.
See ya.
[ Phone ringing ]
I, uh-- I repeated
the lumbar puncture
on Mickey Wong.
Uh-Huh.
His brudzinski sign
is Negative.
Good. Good.
We should have
an accurate read
on him in an hour.
Okay.
[ scoffs ]
Nancy, I'm sorry,
but I--
I mean, that boy
was almost dead
two hours ago,
and now he's sitting up,
eating pizza...
as though Nothing
had ever happened.
It is the single
most amazing,
wonderful thing
I have ever seen.
And yet you sit here as though
it's an everyday occurrence.
As opposed to a Miracle?
That's right.
How can you tell me...
that it was the penicillin
that cured him?
The lumbar puncture
Showed pus eight hours ago.
Do you have
a more plausible explanation?
No. But I know
what I saw.
Ultimate chinese medicine.
And you're going to
write that up?
Uh-Huh.
Candles, burned coins,
pink hard-Boiled eggs,
arranged in a half-Moon
on the Pillow?
Well, while you're at it,
why don't you mention
the spaceship we saw tonight?
The blue-Green glow
of the music, unlike anything
We'd ever heard.
How incredibly
friendly they were.
You cannot
write it up, Jack.
The New England journal
of medicine recognizes
penicillin, not miracles.
Especially when it's
a first-Year resident
making the claim.
You would lose
all your credibility.
Then penicillin it is.
Nancy.
Just between you and me,
what do you really think?
No question about it.
It absolutely was a Miracle.
I guess
anything's possible.
I guess.
Hello, Hugh.
Ralph.
I thought I'd come up
and see the sunrise.
Oh, you did, did you?
I know, I know,
you're gonna go on
about the rules.
That's right, I am.
Well, I'm sorry,
but the view just isn't
the same from my room.
Buildings and bars,
that's all I can see.
Well, okay.
Really, Hugh.
Is it the truth or not?
I mean, we've sat through
quite a few sunrises
down there together.
Is it the pits, or what?
It isn't the best view
in the world, No.
Thank you.
We have some rooms that
have better vantage points.
We'll move you
to one of those.
Thank you.
Stand right there, Hugh.
Oh, it should be
a fantastic sunrise.
Just enough clouds in the sky
to make it colorful.
Reddish-Pink.
You think I'm gonna
jump, don't you?
Well, let me calm
your anxiety. I'm not.
But if I were,
I wouldn't fall,
I'd flutter.
And I wouldn't
light on the sidewalk.
I'd land on a sailing Mast
bound for-- where was it, Hugh?
Didn't it used to be portugal?
It still can be.
That was your dream.
It was ours,
Jane's and mine.
The ultimate migration.
The quintessential Flight.
Birds of Passage.
Birds of the day,
of the night, of dawn.
The final roost, Hugh,
the final roost.
And now
that's all gone forever.
Jane is not a bird
anymore, Ralph.
I know that.
I do.
And I have my moments, too,
when I realize that I am not a--
[ sighs ]
I have my moments too.
I know you do.
I'm not an eagle, am I?
No.
And I'm not able to fly?
No, you're not able to fly.
I have these moments
when I'm thinking clearly.
Like right now.
And it makes it so hard,
so devastatingly hard, Hugh,
to accept my condition.
Time, Ralph.
All you need is time.
You think so?
You know,
I don't think so anymore.
Come on, Ralph.
Let's go back inside.
Please?
Hello.
Some night, huh?
Oh, some night.
Did you know the patient
who killed himself?
Uh, Ralph selover.
Why did he do it?
I'm not sure.
Somebody said
trouble with a woman.
Well, I saw
a Miracle tonight.
Yeah?
A boy who should be dead
right now,
is sitting up in his room,
eating pizza...
and complaining
that he wants to go home.
I saw the same Miracle.
Different Boy.
Jack Morrison said that
after what he saw tonight,
anything is possible.
I thought you weren't
working tonight.
Yeah, well, life's
full of surprises,
isn't it?
You gotta be prepared
to expect the unexpected.
I was never very good
at that, was I?
Why did you leave me, Ben?
I was young...
and scared
and shallow and...
very stupid.
You were the golden boy.
Oh, you had the world
at your feet.
Yep.
I remember you saying you were
going to be chief of surgery
by the time you were 35.
And not just at any hospital--
Mount Sinai.
Yeah, Well,
that was a long time ago,
wasn't it?
What happened?
Life. It threw me
a couple of curves.
Could never hit a curve.
Sure, you could.
Could I?
Anytime, anywhere.
Do you still want
the same things?
Uh--
no, I don't think
about that much anymore.
You know, when I used to see
a closed door, I had to know
what was behind it.
And now I... walk By.
That's too bad.
Maybe.
♪♪ [ Radio: Ballad ]
Sunday Morning.
[ Chuckles ]
time to go home,
get some sleep.
Ben?
♪♪ [ Continues ]
[ mews ]